jovenes in Guatemala undermines the
civilian government the government is
overthrown and from 1954 on Guatemala
has had one succession of military
rulers after another military
dictatorship in the aftermath of this
operation in 1954 the CIA set up an
internal security service and then
others but from these services set up
and supported by the CIA all through the
years came the death squads in other
words the services established by the
CIA then spawned these death squads in
Guatemala the very same thing in El
Salvador you can be assured as yours
you're of your own name that for the
last 10 or 11 years the CIA has been
working in there day and night with
those Salvadoran security services and
military collecting information giving
it to those services which in turn are
the same things as the death squads
information on activists in Human Rights
field the student leadership trade
unions and so forth and those have
constituted the 75,000 or so people who
have been murdered over 10 or 11 years
in El Salvador disappeared many of them
others tortured to death their bodies
thrown along the sides of the roads
nobody knows how many have been killed
in guatemala by these military regimes
which started with the CIA some say
100,000 some say 125,000 some say
150,000 who knows nobody will ever
really know the the exact number who
have been killed but you multiply this
around the world because I'm only
mentioning a couple of examples of the
CIA operations there have been now 44
years of this and they have existed all
around the world and put those
operations together with the overt
military interventions and the enormous
cost in human life of those such as
Grenada Panama Iraq Vietnam for example
all of those and you get to you get the
picture of this expansionist extremely
aggressive US foreign policy
well I don't think it's enough really to
describe what the CIA does or US foreign
policy in general it's also necessary to
ask a couple of questions and going back
to the Gulf for just a moment consider
this analysis of what really happened in
the Gulf you know that the United States
has been exporting war material for four
decades beginning right around nineteen
fifty with the document i mentioned
earlier tanks guns of every sort weapons
planes ships and military equipment of
every sort well with a national debt of
three and a half trillion dollars in
this country 800 billion of it owned by
foreigners for handling of that debt it
seems that it was only a matter of time
before the US Armed Forces were sent
abroad as one more export because what
we did in the Persian Gulf crisis was to
send a bore abroad that enormous amount
of military hardware but this time we
also exported the people to operate it
it was armed forces sent abroad to
protect the resources and the regime's
these family dictatorships of the sheikh
tins of the persian gulf what we did in
fact was what we in the United States do
the best we made war and we were
financed in this exercise by the people
who make things that people around the
world want cars VCRs and so forth
finance mainly by the Japanese and the
Germans and that puts the United States
as it's going to have a permanent
presence in the Persian Gulf in a very
strong position visa V the Japanese and
the Germans who are not there militarily
and they are going to depend to a great
degree for their energy resources at
least from that region on US policy that
is why they went along with the war that
is an interpretation of the Gulf crisis
and the other question that I wanted to
raise is why we do these things as a
country
why we do these as a society as a nation
why do we do these grisly things abroad
I believe strongly that until we have
fundamental change in the United States
domestically in the domestic system
until we have some kind of real
democracy in this country participatory
democracy where people have a say and
where we end the re-election of ninety
five to ninety seven percent of
incumbents at every election where there
is a real political debate until we
change the domestic system we're going
to have elitist control of the United
States we're going to have these foreign
adventures and the grisly things as I
mentioned that the CIA does abroad so
the real problem is here at home in
changing the domestic system in bringing
about a conversion of the economy to
human purposes solving the domestic
crises and getting the people out of
office who are in there to back a
continuation of the permanent war
economy
you